---
layout: post
title: The (real) Goal

---



"If you're not driving the business, then you're not driving your future." 
-- David Henke

Most business books are drivel. The reason business books have the reputation they do is that there's one good one for each thousand others. One of those good ones, however, is "The Goal" by Eliyahu Goldratt. Jeff Bezos requires incoming execs read it, and I've had it recommended by some well respected visiting speakers at HubSpot (where I work). 

The core lesson in the book is to avoid local maxima, and to make sure your systems are optimizing for the overall goal (hence the name). The story follows a manufacturing plant, but applies just as readily to many other businesses and their processes. The main character learns again and again how various parts of the plant need to be suboptimized in order to increase overall throughput. 

This is a great lesson to internalize, and for Product Managers like myself, it's a good reminder when working on a small part of a much larger product. Lift your eyes and see how you fit in the larger customer journey and don't just solve for your team and your part of the user's experience.

But the bigger take away that I got from the book is the necessary conclusion that you come to whenever you're working in a Company that isn't a non-profit. Revenue is your north star.

Depending on the history/size/sophistication/industry your company is in, you may not have been forced to consider this. It's easy in larger corporations especially, when you're relatively far removed from the sales team that has numbers to hit every month. Maybe your team's focus is driving usage or improving specific onboarding flows. You're measured by Weekly Active Users or Activation Rate (hey, at least it's not scrum points or something).

Guess what? You're not focused on the goal.

When you switch your mindset to always focusing on revenue then it puts your sub-goals in perspective. Sure, let's focus on increased Activation Rate *as a way to improve our customer conversion rate and drive more revenue*. 